README.md, before:

# Download

https://github.com/AbinashBishoyi/WhatsApp-Key-DB-Extractor/archive/master.zip

# WhatsApp Key/DB Extractor v2

The purpose of this script is to provide a method for WhatsApp users to extract their cipher key on NON-ROOTED
Android devices. The cipher key is required to decrypt WhatsApp CRYPT6 and CRYPT7 backup files. This script
works by hooking into the USB backup feature on Android 4.0 or higher. It will NOT work with earlier Android
versions or on devices where this feature has been deliberately disabled by the manufacturer. The cipher key
can be used with WhatCrypt (www.whatcrypt.com), both on the website (online decryption / exportation) and with
the Android App (offline decryption / recryption). Other apps and websites may also support WhatsApp cipher keys.
It should be noted that WhatsApp cipher keys can roll (update) periodically. If this happens then you will need
to repeat the instructions contained within this file in order to extract the latest cipher key. This script will
also extract the latest UNENCRYPTED WhatsApp Message Database (`msgstore.db`) and Contacts Database (`wa.db`).

In addition to the above. A copy of the cipher key will also be pushed to the WhatsApp Database directory on the
device itself and contained within a file called `.nomedia`. The reason for this is to allow Android Developers
a unified method in which they can offer their app users WhatsApp Decryption for those willing to run this script.


# Prerequisites

1. O/S: Windows Vista, Windows 7 or Windows 8, or Linux
2. Java (will start installation procedure if not already present on your system)
3. ADB (Android Debug Bridge) Drivers - If not installed: http://forum.xda-developers.com/showthread.php?t=2588979
4. USB Debugging must be enabled on the target device. Settings -> Developer Options -> (Debugging) USB debugging
   If you cannot find Developer Options then please go to: Settings -> About phone/device and tap the Build number
   multiple times until you're finally declared a developer.

# Windows Instructions

1. Extract `master.zip` on your computer maintaining the directory structure.
2. Browse to the extracted folder and click on `WhatsAppKeyExtract.bat`.
3. Few have complained that it's keep on asking to install Java though Java is already installed, then you can click on `WhatsAppKeyExtractNoJavaCheck.bat`.
4. Connect your device via USB, unlock your screen and wait for "Full backup" to appear. (If you have never used USB Debugging before, you may also need to verify the fingerprint.)
5. Leave the password field blank and tap on "Back up my data".
6. The "extracted" folder will now contain your "whatsapp.key", "msgstore.db" and "wa.db".

# Linux Instructions
 
1. Extract `master.zip` on your computer maintaining the directory structure.
2. Browse to the extracted folder and run `. ./WhatsAppKeyExtract.sh` and wait for "Full backup" to appear. (If you have never used USB Debugging before, you may also need to verify the fingerprint.)
3. Leave the password field blank and tap on "Back up my data".
4. The key will be copied back onto your machine in such a way that WhatsApp TriCrypt will work.

# Authors

* Author: Abinash Bishoyi
* Intial Work: TripCode
* THANKS: Nikolay Elenkov for ade.jar and Snoop05 for ADB Installer. David Fraser for scriptify Linux version.

Commit message:

Added feature to look into system Registry for the Java Home Directory

README.md, after:

# Download

https://github.com/AbinashBishoyi/WhatsApp-Key-DB-Extractor/archive/master.zip

# WhatsApp Key/DB Extractor v2.2

The purpose of this script is to provide a method for WhatsApp users to extract their cipher key on NON-ROOTED
Android devices. The cipher key is required to decrypt WhatsApp CRYPT6 and CRYPT7 backup files. This script
works by hooking into the USB backup feature on Android 4.0 or higher. It will NOT work with earlier Android
versions or on devices where this feature has been deliberately disabled by the manufacturer. The cipher key
can be used with WhatCrypt (www.whatcrypt.com), both on the website (online decryption / exportation) and with
the Android App (offline decryption / recryption). Other apps and websites may also support WhatsApp cipher keys.
It should be noted that WhatsApp cipher keys can roll (update) periodically. If this happens then you will need
to repeat the instructions contained within this file in order to extract the latest cipher key. This script will
also extract the latest UNENCRYPTED WhatsApp Message Database (`msgstore.db`) and Contacts Database (`wa.db`).

In addition to the above. A copy of the cipher key will also be pushed to the WhatsApp Database directory on the
device itself and contained within a file called `.nomedia`. The reason for this is to allow Android Developers
a unified method in which they can offer their app users WhatsApp Decryption for those willing to run this script.


# Prerequisites

1. O/S: Windows Vista, Windows 7 or Windows 8, or Linux
2. Java (will start installation procedure if not already present on your system)
3. ADB (Android Debug Bridge) Drivers - If not installed: http://forum.xda-developers.com/showthread.php?t=2588979
4. USB Debugging must be enabled on the target device. Settings -> Developer Options -> (Debugging) USB debugging
   If you cannot find Developer Options then please go to: Settings -> About phone/device and tap the Build number
   multiple times until you're finally declared a developer.

# Windows Instructions

1. Extract `master.zip` on your computer maintaining the directory structure.
2. Browse to the extracted folder and click on `WhatsAppKeyExtract.bat`. If it is unable to find Java installtion in your system, then it will start installtion. Rerun the script again after Java installation.
3. Few have complained that the script keep on asking to install Java though Java is already installed, then you can click on `WhatsAppKeyExtractNoJavaCheck.bat`.
4. Connect your device via USB, unlock your screen and wait for "Full backup" to appear. (If you have never used USB Debugging before, you may also need to verify the fingerprint.)
5. Leave the password field blank and tap on "Back up my data".
6. The "extracted" folder will now contain your "whatsapp.key", "msgstore.db" and "wa.db".

# Linux Instructions
 
1. Extract `master.zip` on your computer maintaining the directory structure.
2. Browse to the extracted folder and run `. ./WhatsAppKeyExtract.sh` and wait for "Full backup" to appear. (If you have never used USB Debugging before, you may also need to verify the fingerprint.)
3. Leave the password field blank and tap on "Back up my data".
4. The key will be copied back onto your machine in such a way that WhatsApp TriCrypt will work.

# Authors

* Author: Abinash Bishoyi
* Intial Work: TripCode
* THANKS: Nikolay Elenkov for ade.jar and Snoop05 for ADB Installer. David Fraser for scriptify Linux version.
